## Development Environment Setup

Start by downloading Visual Studio Code (VS Code) from [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/) (i.e, if you don't have it). It’s a versatile code editor available on macOS, Linux, and Windows, and it will be our primary tool for writing, testing, and deploying smart contracts.

If you're new to VS Code, explore the "Get Started with VS Code" guide within the editor to familiarize yourself with its core features. For a comprehensive overview, check out the [Visual Studio Code Crash Course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WPqXP_kLzpo) from freeCodeCamp.

## Creating a New Project Directory

1. **Open Your Terminal** in VS Code (or another terminal app if you prefer).
2. **Create a New Directory** for your Hardhat project:

   ```bash
   mkdir hardhat-project
   cd hardhat-project
   ```

This directory will contain all files related to your Hardhat project.

> **Pro Tip:** You can open this folder in VS Code by typing `code .` from the terminal after navigating to `hardhat-project`. This command opens the current directory in a new VS Code instance.

## VS Code Terminal

VS Code includes a built-in terminal, providing a command-line interface (CLI) directly within the editor. This is convenient for running commands without switching applications.

In VS Code, you can open multiple terminals and run different shells (e.g., Bash, PowerShell, or WSL) depending on your setup. To manage terminals:

- Use the `+` button to create a new terminal.
- Use the trash button to close the current terminal.

Efficiency is key in smart contract development, and VS Code offers a range of keyboard shortcuts to speed up your workflow. Learn more about shortcuts [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/keybindings).

## Git Installation

Git is essential for version control and project management. Whether you need to update Git or perform a fresh installation, the [Git Book](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) provides complete instructions to guide you through the process.
